---
key: 376ad205af4c9931616400628fabae53
title: 'Insert title here'
---

## SQL Views

```yaml
type: TitleSlide
key: 350a85c07c
```

`@lower_third`
name: Seung Hun Ham
title: Data Scientist, Facebook

`@script`
In this last lesson, you will be learning about creating a SQL view which is one of the most frequent components used in SQL database.

---

## What Is SQL View?

```yaml
type: FullSlide
key: 94525b0598
```

`@part1`
- A view is the result of a stored query in database.{{1}}
- It has rows and columns like a table.{{2}}
- However, unlike a table, a view does not store any data.{{3}}
- Restrict user access to specific fields in a table.{{4}}

`@script`
Okay, so what is SQL view? SQL view is the result of a stored query in database. You can think of it as a virtual table defined based on a specific query that you can access all the time in database.

A view has rows and columns like a table. Since it is the result of a query, its output includes both rows and columns like when you query a table.

However, unlike a table, a view doesn't store any data. While a table represents actual data, a view represents how you present such data, and you don't have to worry about whether the result from a view is up-to-date since the view doesn't store any data but uses data stored in its underlying table.

One important use case for SQL view is to restrict user access to specific fields in a table. By storing a query showing specific fields, a view can hide unnecessary or sensitive fields from a table. Let's look at an example together.

---

## SQL View Example

```yaml
type: FullSlide
key: a3231798c9
```

`@part1`
```
+----+----------+-----+---------+----------+
| ID | NAME     | AGE | OFFICE  | SALARY   |
+----+----------+-----+---------+----------+
|  1 | John     |  32 | SF	  | 50000.00 |
+----+----------+-----+---------+----------+
```{{1}}

```
+----+----------+---------+
| ID | NAME     | OFFICE  |
+----+----------+---------+
|  1 | John     | SF	  |
+----+----------+---------+
```{{2}}

`@script`
Imagine there is a table storing all the information of employees including their name, age, office location, and salary. Assume a data analyst needs to query how many employees are working in each office. Some fields like age and salary are both unnecessary and sensitive data for this particular task, and it might make sense to hide those data points to some employees to prevent any misuse of data.

In such case, a SQL view can be useful. Using SQL view, you can use the same underlying table while accessing only necessary data fields. For example, using a view, you can create a virtual table that looks like the second table in this example.

---

## Creating SQL View

```yaml
type: FullSlide
key: 47f2ffbfb2
```

`@part1`
- Creating a view{{1}}
```sql
CREATE VIEW employee_basic AS
SELECT id, name, office
FROM table_name;
```{{2}}

- Querying a view{{3}}
```sql
SELECT * FROM employee_basic;
```{{4}}

`@script`
To create a SQL view, we can use CREATE VIEW syntax. CREATE VIEW is similar to CREATE TABLE, but instead of creating a table, it creates a view. When creating a view, you're basically defining it as a query you want to show in the output result. Like a normal query, you can select specific fields from multiple tables using JOIN and filter specific rows using WHERE syntax.

Once you create a view, you can use a view like you query a table. As shown in this example, you can query from a view as if you do using a table, but in this case, you can only access those fields that were part of the view definition.

---

## Let's Practice!

```yaml
type: FinalSlide
key: e894084ac9
```

`@script`
Now, it's your turn! Get started creating your first SQL view, and I will see you back here soon!
